---
id: tev2-spec-gdf
title: Glossary Definition File (GDF)
sidebar_label: GDF (Glossary Definition File)
hide_table_of_contents: true
scopetag: tev2
date: 20220503
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

:::caution
The entire section on Terminology Engine v 2 (TEv2) is still under construction.<br/>
As TEv2 is not (yet) available, the texts that specify the tool are still 'raw', i.e. not yet processed.<br/>[readers](@) will need to see through some (currently unprocessed) notational conventions.
:::

This document specifies the contents of the Glossary Definition File (GDF).

:::info Editor's note
The glossary definition file contains whatever the Glossary Generation Tool (GGT) needs to generate a (human readable) [glossary](@) from the [scope's](@) machine readable glossary. Before documenting this, we do some experiments with SAFs to gain experience about the ways we should go about this stuff. The idea is to have a GGT that is capable of generation glossaries of various types, each of which has its own requirements regarding the specifications according to which it would be generated. A simple HTML glossary would typically only need some HTML code as a 'header' and as a 'footer', which can be specified as files containing tha stuff. Other, more complicated ways can then be created as needed. This file would typically specify the various kinds of glossary types.
:::

:::info Editor's note:
We need a paragraph that specifies the [GDF](@)-file naming conventions.
:::

## Glossary Definitions

There are two ways in which a glossary definition can be specified:

1. as part of the [SAF](tev2-spec-saf). The SAF contains a section that specifies the [glossaries](@) that will be generated by default.
2. as part of a [GDF](tev2-spec-gdf), i.e. a (stand-alone) file, the location of which is defined by the [SAF](tev2-spec-saf) as the URL of the glossaries.

The structure of the actual glossary definition is always the same:

~~~ json
"glossary": [
  { "glossary-type": "<glossary type>"
  , "dateformat": "(?P<year>\\d{4})-?(?P<month>\\d{2})-?(?P<day>\\d{2})(?:T?(?P<hour>\\d{2}):?(?P<minute>\\d{2}):?(?P<second>\\d{2})(?:\\.(?P<fraction>\\d+))?(?P<tzone>[+-]\\d{2}:\\d{2})?)?"
"

    ... argument list ...
  }
]
~~~

or

~~~ yaml
  glossary: # Glossaries can be of any type supported by the Glossary Generation Tool
  - glossary-type: <glossary type>
    ... argument list ...
~~~

where `glossary type` is a text string that identifies a type of glossary that the GGT is capable of generating, and `... argument list ...` is a list of key-value pairs that serve as arguments for the GGT as it generates a glossary of that type. The various glossary-types and argument lists are defined in the subsequent sections

## HRG type `toip`

A Human Readable Glossary (HRG) of type `toip` has the following structure

~~~ json
"glossary": [
  { "glossary-type": "toip",
    "header": "toip-hrg-header.html",
    "footer": "toip-hrg-footer.html"
  }
]
~~~

or

~~~ yaml
  glossary: # Glossaries can be of any type supported by the Glossary Generation Tool
  - glossary-type: toip
    header: toip-hrg-header.html
    footer: toip-hrg-footer.html
~~~
